Project DJ Godot

Project-DJ-Engine (PDJE) is designed for indie developers who want to take
rhythm games seriously, and for teams that want DJing to be a deeply
integrated core mechanic, not just a visual concept or UI gimmick.

Instead of hiring a dedicated audio programmer and building a custom audio
engine from scratch, you can start from PDJE, a production-oriented soft
real-time C++ engine, and spend more of your time and budget on game design,
charting, UX, and content.

What the PDJE Modules Provide

- Core module:
  Gives you broad control over music and track playback. You can search and
  load music, start and stop playback, change playback position, and adjust BPM
  or playback tempo without changing pitch through WSOLA-based time stretching.
  In hybrid/manual playback, each loaded music item can receive real-time FX
  such as Filter, EQ, Echo, Distortion, Flanger, Phaser, Panner, Trance, Roll,
  and Compressor, making it possible to build DJ-style transitions, live remix
  mechanics, and music-reactive gameplay.

- Core module - Editor:
  Adds an authoring workflow for building the content your rhythm/DJ game needs.
  You can register music metadata, create mix timelines, automate BPM changes
  and FX events, author note chart data for gameplay judgement, preview edited
  results, and prepare finished track/music data for use by the game. It is
  meant to help teams build and iterate on mixsets and charts without treating
  every change as a one-off code task.

- Input module:
  Provides low-latency keyboard, mouse, and MIDI ingestion for rhythm-game
  controls. It can discover and select devices, preserve high-resolution input
  timing, and treat multiple connected keyboards or mice as separate input
  sources instead of collapsing them into one generic device. This lets you
  design gameplay gimmicks around multi-keyboard or multi-mouse setups,
  device-specific lanes, separated player roles, or arcade-style controller
  layouts.

- Judge module:
  Turns synchronized music timing, note chart data, and player input into
  gameplay judgement events. It lets you map keyboard, mouse, or MIDI input to
  gameplay rails/lanes, apply microsecond-oriented timing windows and offsets,
  and drive hit/miss feedback, scoring, combo, visual effects, or other
  rhythm-game reactions from accurate timing results.

- Util module:
  Provides supporting tools for content, analysis, and runtime helpers. It can
  help with database/cache style workflows, waveform and WebP generation for
  music visualization, STFT/MIR-based music analysis, OpenCL-backed computation
  with CPU fallback, and AI-assisted beat/downbeat detection through Beat This.
  These utilities are intended to support richer music UI, analysis-driven
  effects, and faster content workflows around the main engine.

Under the hood, PDJE is a C++ project that simultaneously acts as:

- a real-time DJ engine capable of live-style mixing
- an editor where you can author mixsets and note data (note charts)
- a central database for managing music tracks, mixsets, and note chart data
- a renderer that can pre-render edited mixsets into audio, so they can be
  played back without real-time performance degradation
- a low-level input layer that reads input devices as directly as the OS allows
  for shipping games, then feeds those inputs into a real-time judgement system
  for rhythm-game mechanics

Prebuilt Binaries and Godot Integration

Project DJ Engine treats Godot as a first-class deployment target.

This Godot asset is built around prebuilt binaries of:

- the core Project-DJ-Engine (PDJE)
- the PDJE Godot wrapper
- the Project DJ Godot integration layer

These binaries are produced by a CI/CD pipeline directly from the upstream
repositories. When the engine and wrapper code are updated, new binaries are
built and published.

By using this asset, you can access the latest PDJE + Godot integration without
compiling C++ yourself. You only need to keep the prebuilt binaries up to date
with the provided update script.

Required First Step: Update_Project_DJ_Godot

After installing this asset, run the Update_Project_DJ_Godot script at least
once before using the plugin in your project.

This first update run is required. It pulls the latest prebuilt binaries and
related files from the linked repositories, resolves Git LFS-backed assets, and
keeps your local copy in sync with the rolling-release pipeline.

Requirements: Git and Git LFS.

If they are not installed, the script will attempt to install them
automatically. On Windows, you may be prompted for administrator rights.

Examples:

On Linux:

bash Update_Project_DJ_Godot.sh

On Windows:

.\Update_Project_DJ_Godot.bat

This project is under active development and updated frequently. For the best
experience, run the update script once immediately after installation, and then
run it regularly to stay current.

Agent-Driven Development Support

This asset includes ProjectDJGodot_Agent_Docs, a documentation and harness
directory for agentic coding workflows with Project DJ Godot.

ProjectDJGodot_Agent_Docs is written for coding agents and AI-assisted
development tools that help users build Godot 4 projects through the PDJE
GDExtension API. It gives agents a structured reading order for the core,
input, judge, utility, packaging, troubleshooting, and report-template
materials.

This makes Project DJ Godot easier to use in agent-driven development
workflows. An agent can inspect the harness to avoid guessing Godot class names,
wrapper boundaries, failure conventions, packaging requirements, and the
recommended input-judge-timeline flow.

The harness is also useful when preparing human-reviewed bug reports or feature
requests for Discord or GitHub Issues. It is intended to support developers,
not to replace human review of generated reports or code changes.

Documents

Official Documentation

The official PDJE documentation explains engine concepts, architecture, and
APIs, including how the Godot integration is structured. It also covers topics
such as beat-synchronous timing, mixset authoring, note-chart data handling,
input, judge integration, utility APIs, and AI-assisted music analysis features.

Official docs:
https://rliop913.github.io/Project-DJ-Engine/

AskToPDJE (Code/Docs Q&A Helper)

AskToPDJE is a helper tool that lets you ask questions about the PDJE / Project
DJ Godot codebase and documentation.

It is designed to answer questions like:

- what a specific node or module does
- where a particular setting comes from
- how to extend or modify the input-judge-timeline flow
- how a PDJE or Project DJ Godot API should be used from a project

By using AskToPDJE, you can explore the engine and integration layer more
quickly without manually searching through the entire codebase.

AskToPDJE:
https://github.com/Rliop913/AskToPDJE

Community and Feedback (Discord / GitHub Issues)

A dedicated Project DJ Engine Discord server is available for users and
developers.

You can use the Discord server to:

- propose interface/API changes
- give usability feedback and improvement requests
- ask for help when integrating PDJE or Project DJ Godot into your game
- discuss agent-driven development workflows and report drafts

Official Discord:
https://discord.gg/2Pwju7xhmS

For more formal bug reports or feature requests, please open a GitHub Issue on
the corresponding repository. Feedback from Discord and GitHub Issues is
collected together and used to prioritize future changes to the engine,
wrapper, and Godot integration.

Getting Started (GAME_TEMPLATE)

Under the examples/ directory, you will find:

examples/GAME_TEMPLATE.tscn

This scene is a minimal game template that wires together PDJE Core, input
handling, and the Judge module integration.

To start your own project:

1. Install this asset.
2. Run Update_Project_DJ_Godot at least once.
3. Copy examples/GAME_TEMPLATE.tscn into your game's scene tree.
4. Rename and modify it to match your project's structure.
5. Extend the template with your own note charts, visual assets, scoring, and
   feedback logic.

By starting from GAME_TEMPLATE.tscn, you can jump directly into actual
rhythm-game and DJ-game design instead of spending time on boilerplate
integration.
